# INFO-474-Exploration-Tool
Info 474 first d3 assignment, exploration tool

Layout:
	The reason that I chose to do a scatter plot of Kobe Bryant’s shots was because basketball shot data is nicely interpreted and represented when positioned on a basketball court as axes/scales. The first idea I had was just to plot every shot as a circle. There was going to be a few problems such as expressiveness because of overlapping points. I looked at a few other examples online, and saw that they used hexagons to group shots together and get that hexagon’s field goal percentage. If I had more time, I probably would have tried to implement that since it deals with the expressiveness issue without compromising effectiveness. Still, I decided to go with the scatter plot idea because I decided to narrow down the data to just the playoffs for Kobe. Since it is showing a limited amount of shots, combined with the other filters, the number of points on the plot is rarely overwhelming. For some of the filters, it is even narrowed down to just one point! So while I did jeopardize effectiveness by truncating the dataset, I vastly increased expressiveness.
Tools:
	There were so many other tools that I wanted to build in but never got a chance to, so I will just discuss the three tools I did implement and the insights I gain from them both individually and combined. First, there is filter by minutes remaining. With this tool, you can see how Kobe does in any minute portion of any quarter. Some insights you might gain are how Kobe does in the first or last minute, or any other range of minutes of your interest. Second, there is filter by seconds left in a minute. This one is really meant to be used in conjunction with minutes remaining, since they both have to do with time. Again, you could see how Kobe does in the first 30 seconds of a quarter, or last second of a quarter (but you would also have to use the minutes bar). Lastly, there is filter by quarter. I ran into a bit of a problem here trying to express quarters 5 and 6 as overtime, that might be confusing to a new user, so I made it say ‘2OT’ for double over time, but the scale still shows quarter #6. With this final filter, you can narrow Kobe’s shots down to the first half, second half, fourth quarter, overtime, or any quarter range. With all of the filters combined, you can see all of Kobe’s famous shots, i.e. his shots in 4th quarter or overtime with 0 minutes and less than 5 seconds. In fact, we can see that Kobe has never made a 4th quarter or overtime shot in the playoffs with just 1 second on the clock, but he has hit one with three seconds left (though he also missed 11 other similar shots!). Try googling, “Kobe Bryant Playoff Buzzer Beater,” you won’t get much! This leads us to wonder, was Kobe really the greatest Laker? 

Credit:
1.	https://github.com/MasterMaps/d3-slider 
a.	Gave me the three sliders used for filtering
2.	https://github.com/virajsanghvi/d3.basketball-shot-chart 
a.	Gave me the layout for the basketball court like the paint, three point line, and all the other parts of the basketball court, including arc length functions.
3.	http://bl.ocks.org/ZJONSSON/3918369 
a.	Gave me a quick legend
